docs/1.29/understand-prisma/prisma-introduction-what-why-how-j9ff.mdx, before:

import Collapse from 'components/Markdown/Collapse'

export const meta = {
  title: "Prisma Introduction: What, Why & How",
  position: 10,
  description: 'Learn about Prisma\'s use cases, main benefits and how it fits into your stack.'
}

## What is Prisma?

Prisma is a _data layer_ that replaces traditional ORMs in your application architecture. 

The data layer consists of several components:

- A **Prisma server** acting as a proxy for your database
- A high-performance **query engine** that runs on the Prisma server and generates actual database queries
- A **Prisma client** that connects to the Prisma server
- A **realtime event system** that lets you subscribe to database events 

<Collapse title="A note on Prisma Cloud">

_Prisma_ is [open-source](https://github.com/prisma/prisma) and can be used as a standalone infrastructure component hosted on your favorite cloud provider. [_Prisma Cloud_](https://www.prisma.io/cloud) is an application (used through a CLI & web interface) that provides tools and services around Prisma. When you're using Prisma, usage of Prisma Cloud is optional.

The goal of Prisma Cloud is to ease the workflows in Prisma projects. It features a **data browser**, a **deployment history** (soon with **automatic rollbacks**), various **team collaboration** options as well as **cloud provider integrations** to make it easy for developers to setup and maintain their Prisma servers.

**Get started with Prisma Cloud [here](https://app.prisma.io/).**

</Collapse>

## Use cases

Prisma is useful in any context where you're working with databases.

### Building GraphQL servers

Prisma is the perfect tool for building GraphQL servers. The Prisma client is compatible with the Apollo ecosystem, has default support for GraphQL subscriptions and Relay-style pagination, provides end-to-end type safety and comes with a built-in dataloader to solve the N+1 problem.

### Building REST & gRPC APIs

Prisma is a great fit for building REST& gRPC APIs where it can be used in place of traditional ORMs. It provides many benefits such as type-safety, a modern API and flexible ways for reading and writing relational data.

### CLIs, Scripts, Serverless Functions & a lot more

Prisma has an extremely flexible API which makes it a great fit for a variety of use cases. Whenever you need to talk to one or more databases, Prisma will be of great help by simplifying database workflows.

## Why use Prisma?

### Simple database workflows

Prisma's overall goal is to remove complexity from common database workflows and simplify data access in your applications:

- **Type safe database access** thanks to the custom and auto-generated Prisma client.
- Simple and powerful API for working with **relational data and transactions**.
- Prisma unifies access to multiple databases at once (_coming soon_) and therefore drastically **reduces complexity in cross-database workflows**.
- **Realtime streaming & event system for your database** ensuring you're getting updates for all important events happening in your database.
- **Automatic database migrations (optional)** based on a declarative datamodel expressed using GraphQL's schema definition language (SDL).
- Other database workflows such as **[data import, export](jsw9) & more**.

### A realtime layer for your database

Some databases, such as RethinkDB or DynamoDB provide a realtime API out-of-the box. Such an API lets clients _subscribe_ to any changes happening in the database. The vast majority of conventional databases however does not offer such a realtime API, and implementing it manually gets very complex.

**Prisma offers a realtime API for every [supported database](https://www.prisma.io/features/databases/)**, letting you subscribe to any database event, such as _creating_, _updating_ or _deleting_ data. 

### End-to-end type safety

Programming in a type safe way is the default for modern application development. Here are some of the core benefits type safety provides:

- **Confidence**: Developers can have strong confidence in their code thanks to static analysis and compile-time error checks.
- **Developer experience**: Developer experience increases drastically when having clearly defined data types. Type definitions are the foundation for IDE features like _intelligent auto-completion_ or _jump-to-definition_.
- **Code generation**: It's easy to leverage code generation in your development workflows to avoid writing boilerplate.
- **Cross-system contracts:** Type definitions can be shared across systems (e.g. between client and server) and serve as contracts that define the respective interfaces/APIs.

**End-to-end type safety** refers to having type safety across the entire stack, from client to database. An end-to-end type safe architecture might look as follows:

- **Database**: Prisma provides the strongly typed database layer, the _datamodel_ defines the data types that are being stored in the database
- **Application server**: The application server defines its own schema (e.g. using GraphQL or OpenAPI/Swagger) where it either reuses or transforms the data types from the database. The application server needs to be written in a type safe language (e.g. TypeScript, Scala, Go).
- **Client**: A client being aware of the application server's schema can validate API requests and potential responses at build-time.

### Clean and layered architecture

When developing application servers, most complexity lies in implementing a safe and well-organized database access with respect to _synchronization_, _query optimization_/_performance_ and _security_. This becomes even more complicated when _multiple_ databases are involved.

One common solution to this problem is the introduction of a dedicated _data access layer_ (DAL) that abstracts away the complexities of database access. The DAL's API is consumed by the application server, allowing API developers to simply think about _what_ data they need instead of worrying about _how_ to securely and performantly retrieve it from the database.

![](https://i.imgur.com/SUH6AqW.png)

Using a DAL ensures a **clear separation of concerns** and therefore **improves maintainability and reusability** of your code. Having some sort of database abstraction (be it a simple ORM library or a standalone infrastructure component) is **best practice** for smaller sized applications as well as for applications running at scale. It ensures the application server can talk to your database(s) in a **secure and performant** way.

Prisma is an auto-generated DAL following the same principles as industry-leading DALs (such as Twitter's [Strato](https://about.sourcegraph.com/graphql/graphql-at-twitter/) or Facebook's [TAO](https://www.facebook.com/notes/facebook-engineering/tao-the-power-of-the-graph/10151525983993920/)) while still being accessible for smaller applications.

Prisma lets you start your project with a clean architecture from the beginning and saves you from writing the boilerplate that is otherwise required to glue together database and application server.

## How does Prisma fit into your stack?

Prisma is a standalone infrastructure component that sits on top of your database. You're then using a Prisma client (which is available in various languages) in your application server to connect to Prisma.

This enables you to talk to your database(s) through a simple and modern API ensuring highly performant and secure database access.

Commit message:

add Admin hints to understand prisma

docs/1.29/understand-prisma/prisma-introduction-what-why-how-j9ff.mdx, after:

import Collapse from 'components/Markdown/Collapse'

export const meta = {
  title: "Prisma Introduction: What, Why & How",
  position: 10,
  description: 'Learn about Prisma\'s use cases, main benefits and how it fits into your stack.'
}

## What is Prisma?

Prisma replaces traditional ORMs and simplifies database workflows: 

- _Access_: **Type-safe database access with the auto-generated Prisma client** (in [JavaScript](https://www.prisma.io/client/client-javscript/), [TypeScript](https://www.prisma.io/client/client-typescript/), [Go](https://www.prisma.io/client/client-go/))
- _Migrate_: **Declarative data modelling and migrations** (optional)
- _Manage_: **Visual data management with [Prisma Admin](https://www.prisma.io/blog/prisma-admin-beta-pai5lah43soe/)**

It is used to build **GraphQL, REST, gRPC APIs** and a lot more. Prisma [currently supports](#database-connectors) MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.

<Collapse title="A note on Prisma Cloud">

_Prisma_ is [open-source](https://github.com/prisma/prisma) and can be used as a standalone infrastructure component hosted on your favorite cloud provider. [_Prisma Cloud_](https://www.prisma.io/cloud) is an application (used through a CLI & web interface) that provides tools and services around Prisma. When you're using Prisma, usage of Prisma Cloud is optional.

The goal of Prisma Cloud is to ease the workflows in Prisma projects. It features a **data browser**, a **deployment history** (soon with **automatic rollbacks**), various **team collaboration** options as well as **cloud provider integrations** to make it easy for developers to setup and maintain their Prisma servers.

**Get started with Prisma Cloud [here](https://app.prisma.io/).**

</Collapse>

## Use cases

Prisma is useful in any context where you're working with databases.

### Building GraphQL servers

Prisma is the perfect tool for building GraphQL servers. The Prisma client is compatible with the Apollo ecosystem, has default support for GraphQL subscriptions and Relay-style pagination, provides end-to-end type safety and comes with a built-in dataloader to solve the N+1 problem.

### Building REST & gRPC APIs

Prisma is a great fit for building REST& gRPC APIs where it can be used in place of traditional ORMs. It provides many benefits such as type-safety, a modern API and flexible ways for reading and writing relational data.

### CLIs, Scripts, Serverless Functions & a lot more

Prisma has an extremely flexible API which makes it a great fit for a variety of use cases. Whenever you need to talk to one or more databases, Prisma will be of great help by simplifying database workflows.

## Why use Prisma?

### Simple database workflows

Prisma's overall goal is to remove complexity from common database workflows and simplify data access in your applications:

- **Type-safe database access** thanks to the custom and auto-generated Prisma client.
- Simple and powerful API for working with **relational data and transactions**.
- Visual **data management** with Prisma Admin. 
- Prisma unifies access to multiple databases at once (_coming soon_) and therefore drastically **reduces complexity in cross-database workflows**.
- **Realtime streaming & event system for your database** ensuring you're getting updates for all important events happening in your database.
- **Automatic database migrations (optional)** based on a declarative datamodel expressed using GraphQL's schema definition language (SDL).
- Other database workflows such as **[data import, export](jsw9) & more**.

### A realtime layer for your database

Some databases, such as RethinkDB or DynamoDB provide a realtime API out-of-the box. Such an API lets clients _subscribe_ to any changes happening in the database. The vast majority of conventional databases however does not offer such a realtime API, and implementing it manually gets very complex.

**Prisma offers a realtime API for every [supported database](https://www.prisma.io/features/databases/)**, letting you subscribe to any database event, such as _creating_, _updating_ or _deleting_ data. 

### End-to-end type safety

Programming in a type safe way is the default for modern application development. Here are some of the core benefits type safety provides:

- **Confidence**: Developers can have strong confidence in their code thanks to static analysis and compile-time error checks.
- **Developer experience**: Developer experience increases drastically when having clearly defined data types. Type definitions are the foundation for IDE features like _intelligent auto-completion_ or _jump-to-definition_.
- **Code generation**: It's easy to leverage code generation in your development workflows to avoid writing boilerplate.
- **Cross-system contracts:** Type definitions can be shared across systems (e.g. between client and server) and serve as contracts that define the respective interfaces/APIs.

**End-to-end type safety** refers to having type safety across the entire stack, from client to database. An end-to-end type safe architecture might look as follows:

- **Database**: Prisma provides the strongly typed database layer, the _datamodel_ defines the data types that are being stored in the database
- **Application server**: The application server defines its own schema (e.g. using GraphQL or OpenAPI/Swagger) where it either reuses or transforms the data types from the database. The application server needs to be written in a type safe language (e.g. TypeScript, Scala, Go).
- **Client**: A client being aware of the application server's schema can validate API requests and potential responses at build-time.

### Clean and layered architecture

When developing application servers, most complexity lies in implementing a safe and well-organized database access with respect to _synchronization_, _query optimization_/_performance_ and _security_. This becomes even more complicated when _multiple_ databases are involved.

One common solution to this problem is the introduction of a dedicated _data access layer_ (DAL) that abstracts away the complexities of database access. The DAL's API is consumed by the application server, allowing API developers to simply think about _what_ data they need instead of worrying about _how_ to securely and performantly retrieve it from the database.

![](https://i.imgur.com/SUH6AqW.png)

Using a DAL ensures a **clear separation of concerns** and therefore **improves maintainability and reusability** of your code. Having some sort of database abstraction (be it a simple ORM library or a standalone infrastructure component) is **best practice** for smaller sized applications as well as for applications running at scale. It ensures the application server can talk to your database(s) in a **secure and performant** way.

Prisma is an auto-generated DAL following the same principles as industry-leading DALs (such as Twitter's [Strato](https://about.sourcegraph.com/graphql/graphql-at-twitter/) or Facebook's [TAO](https://www.facebook.com/notes/facebook-engineering/tao-the-power-of-the-graph/10151525983993920/)) while still being accessible for smaller applications.

Prisma lets you start your project with a clean architecture from the beginning and saves you from writing the boilerplate that is otherwise required to glue together database and application server.

## How does Prisma fit into your stack?

Prisma is a standalone infrastructure component that sits on top of your database. You're then using a Prisma client (which is available in various languages) in your application server to connect to Prisma.

This enables you to talk to your database(s) through a simple and modern API ensuring highly performant and secure database access.
