docs/1.27/prisma-server/deployment-environments/docker-rty1.mdx, before:

import Warning from "components/Markdown/Warning"

export const meta = {
  title: "Docker",
  position: 80
}

## Overview

Prisma servers can be run with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). This page contains everything you need to know around the Docker setup and relevant worfklows.

## Prisma Docker image

The `prisma` Docker image is [available via Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/prismagraphql/prisma/). You can pull the latest released version of the image using the following command:

```bash
docker pull prismagraphql/prisma
```

## Common workflows

The [Docker CLI](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli) and [Docker Compose CLI](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/) are used to manage the Prisma servers.

Here's a quick rundown of the most important commands:

- [`docker-compose up -d`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/up/): Start a new Prisma server to which you can deploy your Prisma services.
- [`docker-compose stop`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/stop/): Stops the Prisma server.
- [`docker-compose pull`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/pull/): Downloads the [latest Prisma images](https://hub.docker.com/r/prismagraphql/prisma/tags/) from Docker Hub
- [`docker logs`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/logs/): Shows the logs of the Prisma server (helpful for debugging).

Note that these commands need to be executed in the directory where the Docker Compose file for your Prisma server is available.

## Docker Compose file

Here is an overview of all properties you need to configure on the `prisma` Docker image inside your Docker Compose file. The all-uppercase words represent placeholders for the configuration variables you need to provide for your Prisma setup.

```yml
version: '3'
services:
  prisma:
    image: prismagraphql/prisma:__LATEST_PRISMA_VERSION__
    restart: always
    ports:
    - "4466:4466"
    environment:
      PRISMA_CONFIG: |
        managementApiSecret: __YOUR_MANAGEMENT_API_SECRET__
        port: __YOUR_PRISMA_SERVER_PORT__
        databases:
          default:
            connector: __YOUR_DATABASE_CONNECTOR__
            migrations: __ENABLE_DB_MIGRATIONS__
            host: __YOUR_DATABASE_HOST__
            port: __YOUR_DATABASE_PORT__
            user: __YOUR_DATABASE_USER__
            password: __YOUR_DATABASE_PASSWORD__
            connectionLimit: __YOUR_CONNECTION_LIMIT__
```

Most notably most of your configuration takes place in the `PRISMA_CONFIG` environment variable.

> Despite seemingly following the YAML key-value structure, `PRISMA_CONFIG` is actually speficied as a string. The pipe character `|` right after `PRISMA_CONFIG` denotes the beginning of a [multi-line string in YAML](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/yaml/yaml_format.html). 

### PRISMA_CONFIG reference

#### Root properties

These are the root properties of `PRISMA_CONFIG`:

| Key | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
| `managementApiSecret` | `string` | The Management API secret is used by the Prisma CLI to generate authentication tokens and authenticate its requests against the Prisma server. Example: `mysecret42`  | 
| `port` | `number` | The port on which the Prisma server is running. Example:  `4466` | 
| `databases` | `object` | Specifies to which databases the Prisma server should connect to. | 

#### Database properties

Each _database object_ in the `databases` object needs to include the following properties:

| Key | Type  | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
| `connector` | `string` | Specifies which database connector to be used. [Learn more](jgfs).
| `migrations` | `boolean` | Specifies if Prisma should be able to perform database migrations. [Learn more](jgfs#database-migrations).
| `host` | `string` | The IP address or URL of the machine hosting the database. Example: `127.0.0.1` |
| `port` | `number` | The post where the database is running. | 
| `database` | `string` | The database name. Default: `prisma` |
| `user` | `string` | The database user. Example: `root` | 
| `password` | `string` | The password for the database user specified in `user`. Example: `myDBpassword42` | 
| `ssl` | `boolean` | Enable SSL |
| `connectionLimit` | `number` | The maximum number of database connections (must be at least **2**). [Learn more](jgfs#managing-database-connections).


## Debugging

To get insights into the internals of your Prisma server, you can check the logs of the Docker container.

### Accessing Docker logs

View the raw logs from the running Docker containers:

```bash
docker-compose logs
```

### Verify Docker containers

Verify that the containers are running:

```bash
docker ps
```

You should see an output similar to this:

```bash
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
2b799c529e73        prismagraphql/prisma:1.27            "/bin/sh -c /app/sta…"   17 hours ago        Up 7 hours          0.0.0.0:4466->4466/tcp   myapp_prisma_1
757dfba212f7        mysql:5.7                           "docker-entrypoint.s…"   17 hours ago        Up 7 hours          3306/tcp                 prisma-db
```

This is helpful when you're getting an error message saying `Error response from daemon: No such container`.

### Logging slow queries

To monitor and log slow queries, you can set the following environment variables in your Docker Compose file:

- `SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING`: Enable slow query logging with `true` or `false` 
- `SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING_THRESHOLD`: The treshold (in miliseconds) for queries for queries to be logged. To log _all_ queries, simply provide the value `"0"`.

Here is an example:

```yml
version: '3'
services:
  prisma:
    image: prismagraphql/prisma:__LATEST_PRISMA_VERSION__
    restart: always
    ports:
    - "4466:4466"
    environment:
      SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING: "true"
      SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING_THRESHOLD: "0"
      PRISMA_CONFIG: |
        managementApiSecret: __YOUR_MANAGEMENT_API_SECRET__
        port: __YOUR_PRISMA_SERVER_PORT__
        databases:
          default:
            connector: __YOUR_DATABASE_CONNECTOR__
            migrations: __ENABLE_DB_MIGRATIONS__
            host: __YOUR_DATABASE_HOST__
            port: __YOUR_DATABASE_PORT__
            user: __YOUR_DATABASE_USER__
            password: __YOUR_DATABASE_PASSWORD__
            connectionLimit: __YOUR_CONNECTION_LIMIT__
```

In the logs of your Docker container (which you can access with `docker logs __CONTAINER_ID__`), you can then see the the execution time for queries above specified threshold, for example:

```
SLOW QUERY - DURATION: 17
QUERY: [{"query":"{\n  users {\n    id\n    email\n    name\n  }\n}\n","variables":{}},{"query":"{\n  users {\n    id\n    email\n
   name\n  }\n}\n","variables":{}}]
```

You can find more info in [this](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/3210) GitHub issue.

### Hard resetting the Docker environment

If your local Prisma server is in an unrecoverable state, it might be necessary to completely reset it:

```bash
docker-compose kill
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

<Warning>

Be careful as **these commands will reset all data** in your local Prisma server (including deployed Prisma APIs).

</Warning>

Commit message:

add warning that multiple DBs are not yet supported in Prisma

docs/1.27/prisma-server/deployment-environments/docker-rty1.mdx, after:

import Warning from "components/Markdown/Warning"

export const meta = {
  title: "Docker",
  position: 80
}

## Overview

Prisma servers can be run with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). This page contains everything you need to know around the Docker setup and relevant worfklows.

## Prisma Docker image

The `prisma` Docker image is [available via Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/prismagraphql/prisma/). You can pull the latest released version of the image using the following command:

```bash
docker pull prismagraphql/prisma
```

## Common workflows

The [Docker CLI](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli) and [Docker Compose CLI](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/) are used to manage the Prisma servers.

Here's a quick rundown of the most important commands:

- [`docker-compose up -d`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/up/): Start a new Prisma server to which you can deploy your Prisma services.
- [`docker-compose stop`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/stop/): Stops the Prisma server.
- [`docker-compose pull`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/pull/): Downloads the [latest Prisma images](https://hub.docker.com/r/prismagraphql/prisma/tags/) from Docker Hub
- [`docker logs`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/logs/): Shows the logs of the Prisma server (helpful for debugging).

Note that these commands need to be executed in the directory where the Docker Compose file for your Prisma server is available.

## Docker Compose file

Here is an overview of all properties you need to configure on the `prisma` Docker image inside your Docker Compose file. The all-uppercase words represent placeholders for the configuration variables you need to provide for your Prisma setup.

```yml
version: '3'
services:
  prisma:
    image: prismagraphql/prisma:__LATEST_PRISMA_VERSION__
    restart: always
    ports:
    - "4466:4466"
    environment:
      PRISMA_CONFIG: |
        managementApiSecret: __YOUR_MANAGEMENT_API_SECRET__
        port: __YOUR_PRISMA_SERVER_PORT__
        databases:
          default:
            connector: __YOUR_DATABASE_CONNECTOR__
            migrations: __ENABLE_DB_MIGRATIONS__
            host: __YOUR_DATABASE_HOST__
            port: __YOUR_DATABASE_PORT__
            user: __YOUR_DATABASE_USER__
            password: __YOUR_DATABASE_PASSWORD__
            connectionLimit: __YOUR_CONNECTION_LIMIT__
```

Most notably most of your configuration takes place in the `PRISMA_CONFIG` environment variable.

> Despite seemingly following the YAML key-value structure, `PRISMA_CONFIG` is actually speficied as a string. The pipe character `|` right after `PRISMA_CONFIG` denotes the beginning of a [multi-line string in YAML](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/yaml/yaml_format.html). 

### PRISMA_CONFIG reference

#### Root properties

These are the root properties of `PRISMA_CONFIG`:

| Key | Type | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
| `managementApiSecret` | `string` | The Management API secret is used by the Prisma CLI to generate authentication tokens and authenticate its requests against the Prisma server. Example: `mysecret42`  | 
| `port` | `number` | The port on which the Prisma server is running. Example:  `4466` | 
| `databases` | `object` | Specifies to which databases the Prisma server should connect to. | 

<Warning>

Prisma does not yet support connecting multiple databases to a Prisma server. You can track the progress of this feature [here](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/2873).

</Warning>

#### Database properties

Each _database object_ in the `databases` object needs to include the following properties:

| Key | Type  | Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
| `connector` | `string` | Specifies which database connector to be used. [Learn more](jgfs).
| `migrations` | `boolean` | Specifies if Prisma should be able to perform database migrations. [Learn more](jgfs#database-migrations).
| `host` | `string` | The IP address or URL of the machine hosting the database. Example: `127.0.0.1` |
| `port` | `number` | The post where the database is running. | 
| `database` | `string` | The database name. Default: `prisma` |
| `user` | `string` | The database user. Example: `root` | 
| `password` | `string` | The password for the database user specified in `user`. Example: `myDBpassword42` | 
| `ssl` | `boolean` | Enable SSL |
| `connectionLimit` | `number` | The maximum number of database connections (must be at least **2**). [Learn more](jgfs#managing-database-connections).


## Debugging

To get insights into the internals of your Prisma server, you can check the logs of the Docker container.

### Accessing Docker logs

View the raw logs from the running Docker containers:

```bash
docker-compose logs
```

### Verify Docker containers

Verify that the containers are running:

```bash
docker ps
```

You should see an output similar to this:

```bash
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
2b799c529e73        prismagraphql/prisma:1.27            "/bin/sh -c /app/sta…"   17 hours ago        Up 7 hours          0.0.0.0:4466->4466/tcp   myapp_prisma_1
757dfba212f7        mysql:5.7                           "docker-entrypoint.s…"   17 hours ago        Up 7 hours          3306/tcp                 prisma-db
```

This is helpful when you're getting an error message saying `Error response from daemon: No such container`.

### Logging slow queries

To monitor and log slow queries, you can set the following environment variables in your Docker Compose file:

- `SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING`: Enable slow query logging with `true` or `false` 
- `SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING_THRESHOLD`: The treshold (in miliseconds) for queries for queries to be logged. To log _all_ queries, simply provide the value `"0"`.

Here is an example:

```yml
version: '3'
services:
  prisma:
    image: prismagraphql/prisma:__LATEST_PRISMA_VERSION__
    restart: always
    ports:
    - "4466:4466"
    environment:
      SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING: "true"
      SLOW_QUERIES_LOGGING_THRESHOLD: "0"
      PRISMA_CONFIG: |
        managementApiSecret: __YOUR_MANAGEMENT_API_SECRET__
        port: __YOUR_PRISMA_SERVER_PORT__
        databases:
          default:
            connector: __YOUR_DATABASE_CONNECTOR__
            migrations: __ENABLE_DB_MIGRATIONS__
            host: __YOUR_DATABASE_HOST__
            port: __YOUR_DATABASE_PORT__
            user: __YOUR_DATABASE_USER__
            password: __YOUR_DATABASE_PASSWORD__
            connectionLimit: __YOUR_CONNECTION_LIMIT__
```

In the logs of your Docker container (which you can access with `docker logs __CONTAINER_ID__`), you can then see the the execution time for queries above specified threshold, for example:

```
SLOW QUERY - DURATION: 17
QUERY: [{"query":"{\n  users {\n    id\n    email\n    name\n  }\n}\n","variables":{}},{"query":"{\n  users {\n    id\n    email\n
   name\n  }\n}\n","variables":{}}]
```

You can find more info in [this](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/3210) GitHub issue.

### Hard resetting the Docker environment

If your local Prisma server is in an unrecoverable state, it might be necessary to completely reset it:

```bash
docker-compose kill
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

<Warning>

Be careful as **these commands will reset all data** in your local Prisma server (including deployed Prisma APIs).

</Warning>
