docs/1.27/prisma-server/demo-servers-prisma-cloud-jfr3.mdx, before:

import Warning from "components/Markdown/Warning"

export const meta = {
  title: 'Demo Servers (Prisma Cloud)',
  position: 50
}

## Overview

Prisma Demo servers are Prisma servers running in [Prisma Cloud](https://www.prisma.io/cloud/). **Usage of Demo servers is free of any charge!**

<Warning>

Demo servers are not to be used in production as they are rate-limited and have constraints in terms of storage.

Since Demo servers provide a free and shared environment for all Prisma Cloud users, they can not be protected using the [`managementApiSecret`](kke4#management-api-secret). To procect the data stored in our Prisma services that are deployed to a Demo server, you can set the [service secret](ghd4#service-secret) in your `prisma.yml`.

</Warning>

Prisma Demo servers are available in two _regions_:

- EU (Ireland)
- US West (Oregon)

In order to use a Prisma Demo server, you need to register with Prisma Cloud.

## Service endpoints

The endpoints of Prisma services deployed to Prisma Demo servers have a slightly different structure than the ones for services running on "regular" Prisma servers. 

A service deployed to Prisma Demo server has an additional path component in its URL (prefixing the _name_ and the _stage_ of a service), namely the _name of the Prisma Cloud workspace_.

Consider the following endpoint as an example: `https://eu1.prisma.sh/jane-doe/myservice/dev`

This endpoint encodes the following information about the service:

- `eu1.prisma.sh`: The service is deployed to the _EU_ region. (The _US_ region uses `us1.prisma.sh`).
- `jane-doe`: The name of the Prisma Cloud workspace.
- `myservice`: The name of the service.
- `dev`: The service stage.

## Use cases

Potential use cases for Prisma servers are:

- Prototyping
- Learning
- Personal projects without a notable user base

## Limitations

### Rate limiting

Prisma Demo servers are rate limited to **10 requests per 10 seconds** (on average).

If this rate is exceeded, requests are being queued in memory. If the queue exceeds 25 requests, an error is returned immediately. 

The header field `throttled-by` is included in HTTP responses. It indicates how long the request was delayed due to throttling (in milli seconds).

### Storage

The upper bound in storage capacity for a Prisma service running on a Demo server is **100 MB**.

## Authentication

### Login

Before deploying Prisma services to a Demo server, the Prisma CLI needs to be authenticated with Prisma Cloud.

To log into Prisma CLoud from the CLI, use the following command:

```bash
prisma login
```

This command opens a browser window where you need to provide your Prisma Cloud credentials. If the credentials are valid, the CLI generates a Prisma Cloud token (sometimes called _cloud session key_) and stores it in `~/.prisma/config.yml` as `cloudSessionKey`.

This token is used in subsequent requests to authenticate against the Demo server.

### Logout

To logout from the Prisma CLI use `prisma logout` command. It simply removes the `cloudSessionKey` from `~/.prisma/config.yml`.

## Pricing

There is no cost for using Prisma Demo servers.

Commit message:

add note about AWS Aurora to Demo server docs

docs/1.27/prisma-server/demo-servers-prisma-cloud-jfr3.mdx, after:

import Warning from "components/Markdown/Warning"

export const meta = {
  title: 'Demo Servers (Prisma Cloud)',
  position: 50
}

## Overview

Prisma Demo servers are Prisma servers running in [Prisma Cloud](https://www.prisma.io/cloud/). **Usage of Demo servers is free of any charge!**

All Demo servers are already connected to a hosted instance of an [AWS Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/) database.

<Warning>

Demo servers are not to be used in production as they are rate-limited and have constraints in terms of storage.

Since Demo servers provide a free and shared environment for all Prisma Cloud users, they can not be protected using the [`managementApiSecret`](kke4#management-api-secret). To procect the data stored in our Prisma services that are deployed to a Demo server, you can set the [service secret](ghd4#service-secret) in your `prisma.yml`.

</Warning>

Prisma Demo servers are available in two _regions_:

- EU (Ireland)
- US West (Oregon)

In order to use a Prisma Demo server, you need to register with Prisma Cloud.

## Service endpoints

The endpoints of Prisma services deployed to Prisma Demo servers have a slightly different structure than the ones for services running on "regular" Prisma servers. 

A service deployed to Prisma Demo server has an additional path component in its URL (prefixing the _name_ and the _stage_ of a service), namely the _name of the Prisma Cloud workspace_.

Consider the following endpoint as an example: `https://eu1.prisma.sh/jane-doe/myservice/dev`

This endpoint encodes the following information about the service:

- `eu1.prisma.sh`: The service is deployed to the _EU_ region. (The _US_ region uses `us1.prisma.sh`).
- `jane-doe`: The name of the Prisma Cloud workspace.
- `myservice`: The name of the service.
- `dev`: The service stage.

## Use cases

Potential use cases for Prisma servers are:

- Prototyping
- Learning
- Personal projects without a notable user base

## Limitations

### Rate limiting

Prisma Demo servers are rate limited to **10 requests per 10 seconds** (on average).

If this rate is exceeded, requests are being queued in memory. If the queue exceeds 25 requests, an error is returned immediately. 

The header field `throttled-by` is included in HTTP responses. It indicates how long the request was delayed due to throttling (in milli seconds).

### Storage

The upper bound in storage capacity for a Prisma service running on a Demo server is **100 MB**.

## Authentication

### Login

Before deploying Prisma services to a Demo server, the Prisma CLI needs to be authenticated with Prisma Cloud.

To log into Prisma CLoud from the CLI, use the following command:

```bash
prisma login
```

This command opens a browser window where you need to provide your Prisma Cloud credentials. If the credentials are valid, the CLI generates a Prisma Cloud token (sometimes called _cloud session key_) and stores it in `~/.prisma/config.yml` as `cloudSessionKey`.

This token is used in subsequent requests to authenticate against the Demo server.

### Logout

To logout from the Prisma CLI use `prisma logout` command. It simply removes the `cloudSessionKey` from `~/.prisma/config.yml`.

## Pricing

There is no cost for using Prisma Demo servers.
