docs/1.34/faq/prisma-1-maintenace-fq12.mdx, before:

export const meta = {
  title: 'Since Prisma 2 is released, will Prisma 1 still be maintained?',
  position: 11,
  articleGroup: 'Prisma 1 maintenance',
}

## FAQ

Prisma 1 is currently in [maintenance mode](https://github.com/prisma/prisma1/issues/4898). There will be no new features developed for Prisma 1.

### What is the difference between Prisma 1 Open Source and Prisma 1 Cloud?

**Prisma 1 Open Source** is the [client](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-client/), [CLI](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-cli-and-configuration/), and [server](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-server/).

**Prisma 1 Cloud** was a [service](https://app.prisma.io) that complemented Prisma 1 Open Source by hosting the [Prisma 1 server](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-server/).

### How can I check whether I'm using Prisma 1 Cloud?

1. Open `prisma.yml` in your project
2. Find the `endpoint` property
3. If the `endpoint` property includes either `https://us1.prisma.sh` or `https://eu1.prisma.sh` then you are using Prisma 1 Cloud

### How can I log into Prisma 1 Cloud?

Visit [app.prisma.io](https://app.prisma.io) and login with an email and password or through Github.

Commit message:

Added steps for migrating to self-hosted Prisma 1 Server and closing a Prisma 1 Cloud account

docs/1.34/faq/prisma-1-maintenace-fq12.mdx, after:

export const meta = {
  title: 'Since Prisma 2 is released, will Prisma 1 still be maintained?',
  position: 11,
  articleGroup: 'Prisma 1 maintenance',
}

## FAQ

Prisma 1 Open Source is currently in [maintenance mode](https://github.com/prisma/prisma1/issues/4898). Prisma will not develop any new features or support future implementations.

### What is the difference between Prisma 1 Open Source and Prisma 1 Cloud?

**Prisma 1 Open Source** is the [client](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-client/), [CLI](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-cli-and-configuration/), and [server](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-server/).

**Prisma 1 Cloud** was a [service](https://app.prisma.io) that complemented Prisma 1 Open Source by hosting the [server](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-server/) and a data browser.

### How can I check whether I'm using Prisma 1 Cloud?

1. Open `prisma.yml` in your project.
2. Find the `endpoint` property.
3. If the `endpoint` property includes either `https://us1.prisma.sh` or `https://eu1.prisma.sh`, then you are using Prisma 1 Cloud.

### How can I log into Prisma 1 Cloud?

Visit [app.prisma.io](https://app.prisma.io) and log in with an email and password or through Github. After logging in, navigate to the "Services" tab at the top of the screen to access any currently active services, the "Servers" tab for any custom servers you may have added, and "Settings" in the top center of the screen to access billing and integration information.

### I'm not ready to migrate to Prisma ORM. Can I self-host?

Yes, you can self-host. However, we recommend preparing to migrate to [Prisma ORM](https://www.prisma.io/) as [Prisma 1 Open Source](https://v1.prisma.io/docs) is in maintenance mode.

#### At a high level, these are the steps for migrating to a self-hosted version of Prisma 1 Open Source:
1. Log into your [Prisma 1 Cloud account](https://app.prisma.io) and document any running services in the "Services" tab at the top of the screen.
2. Deploy a Prisma 1 Server to the hosting environment of your choice. Use the following tutorials as examples:
    1. [Deploy to Kubernetes](https://v1.prisma.io/tutorials/deploy-prisma-to-kubernetes-ct13)
    2. [Deploy to Digital Ocean](https://v1.prisma.io/tutorials/deploy-prisma-to-digitalocean-ct12)
    3. [Deploy to Digital Ocean with Docker](https://v1.prisma.io/tutorials/deploy-prisma-to-digitalocean-with-docker-machine-ct06)
    4. [Deploy to Dokku](https://v1.prisma.io/tutorials/deploy-prisma-to-dokku-ct15)
3. [Export your service data](https://v1.prisma.io/tutorials/data-import-and-export-with-prisma-cs03) from Prisma 1 Cloud using [`prisma1 export`](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-cli-and-configuration/cli-command-reference/prisma-export-ycv2/).
4. Update the connection strings in your local `prisma.yml` file to point to the Prisma 1 Server created in Step 2, and [import your service data](https://v1.prisma.io/tutorials/data-import-and-export-with-prisma-cs03).
5. Regression test your application in pre-production environments, then deploy the application with new connection strings to production.
6. Close your Prisma 1 Cloud account (see below)

### How can I close my Prisma 1 account?

1. Log in to [Prisma 1 Cloud](https://app.prisma.io).
2. Verify that there are no production-facing services by visiting the "Services" tab.
3. Click on the "Account" sphere in the upper right-hand corner and click and confirm "Delete Account" at the bottom of the page.
