docs/1.27/prisma-client/setup/generating-the-client-rsc1.mdx, before:

export const meta = {
  title: 'Generating the Client',
  position: 20,
}

## Overview

The Prisma client is auto-generated using the `prisma generate` command of the [Prisma CLI](alx4). One Prisma client connects to exactly one Prisma service.

`prisma generate` reads the information that's specified under the `generate` root property in your service's prisma.yml. 

## Configuring `generate` in prisma.yml

The `generate` root property accepts a list of objects. Each object has two fields:

- `generator`: The programming language in which the Prisma client should be generated. 
  - Possible values: `typescript-client`, `javascript-client`, `flow-client`, `go-client`.
  - Coming soon: `reason`.
- `output`: The path and name of the file in which the Prisma client should be stored.

As an example, consider the following prisma.yml:

```yml
datamodel: datamodel.prisma
endpoint: http://localhost:4000

generate:
  - generator: typescript-client
    output: ./prisma-client/
```

Running `prisma generate` in the directory where that prisma.yml is located generates a Prisma client in TypeScript and stores it in a file called `prisma.ts`.

> The `generator` also accepts `graphql-schema` as a value. This downloads the GraphQL schema for your Prisma API via an [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) query.`

### More examples

As `generate` accepts a list of objects, you might as well generate multiple files at once:

```yml
datamodel: datamodel.prisma
endpoint: http://localhost:4466
secret: mysecret42

generate:
  - generator: typescript-client
    output: ./prisma-client-ts/
  - generator: javascript-client
    output: ./prisma-client-js/
  - generator: graphql-schema
    output: ./graphql-schema/
```

## Generated code

Assume the datamodel for a Prisma service is defined as follows:

```graphql
type Link {
  id: ID! @unique
  createdAt: DateTime!
  description: String!
  url: String!
  postedBy: User
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  password: String!
  links: [Link!]!
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type Vote {
  id: ID! @unique
  link: Link!
  user: User!
}
```

You can view what the generated files look like here:

- [Prisma client for JavaScript](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.js)
- [Prisma client for TypeScript](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts)
- [GraphQL schema of Prisma API](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.graphql)

The generated Prisma client is already aware of the `endpoint` and `secret` that were specified in prisma.yml at the time when the client was generated.

Commit message:

add note about env vars when generating the client

docs/1.27/prisma-client/setup/generating-the-client-rsc1.mdx, after:

export const meta = {
  title: 'Generating the Client',
  position: 20,
}

## Overview

The Prisma client is auto-generated using the `prisma generate` command of the [Prisma CLI](alx4). One Prisma client connects to exactly one Prisma service.

`prisma generate` reads the information that's specified under the `generate` root property in your service's prisma.yml. 

## Configuring `generate` in prisma.yml

The `generate` root property accepts a list of objects. Each object has two fields:

- `generator`: The programming language in which the Prisma client should be generated. 
  - Possible values: `typescript-client`, `javascript-client`, `flow-client`, `go-client`.
  - Coming soon: `reason`.
- `output`: The path and name of the file in which the Prisma client should be stored.

As an example, consider the following prisma.yml:

```yml
datamodel: datamodel.prisma
endpoint: http://localhost:4000

generate:
  - generator: typescript-client
    output: ./prisma-client/
```

Running `prisma generate` in the directory where that prisma.yml is located generates a Prisma client in TypeScript and stores it in a file called `prisma.ts`.

> The `generator` also accepts `graphql-schema` as a value. This downloads the GraphQL schema for your Prisma API via an [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) query.

Note that you can also reference environment variables in `prisma.yml` by using the `env:`-prefix and enclosing them with `${}`. For example, if you have an environment variable set that's called `MY_SECRET`:

```yml
datamodel: datamodel.prisma
endpoint: http://localhost:4000

generate:
  - generator: typescript-client
    output: ./prisma-client/

secret: ${env:MY_SECRET}
```

You can find more info [here](5cy7#using-variables).

### More examples

As `generate` accepts a list of objects, you might as well generate multiple files at once:

```yml
datamodel: datamodel.prisma
endpoint: http://localhost:4466
secret: mysecret42

generate:
  - generator: typescript-client
    output: ./prisma-client-ts/
  - generator: javascript-client
    output: ./prisma-client-js/
  - generator: graphql-schema
    output: ./graphql-schema/
```

## Generated code

Assume the datamodel for a Prisma service is defined as follows:

```graphql
type Link {
  id: ID! @unique
  createdAt: DateTime!
  description: String!
  url: String!
  postedBy: User
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  password: String!
  links: [Link!]!
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type Vote {
  id: ID! @unique
  link: Link!
  user: User!
}
```

You can view what the generated files look like here:

- [Prisma client for JavaScript](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.js)
- [Prisma client for TypeScript](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts)
- [GraphQL schema of Prisma API](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.graphql)

The generated Prisma client is already aware of the `endpoint` and `secret` that were specified in prisma.yml at the time when the client was generated.
