docs/1.27/prisma-client/basic-data-access/writing-data-JAVASCRIPT-rsc6.mdx, before:

import Collapse from "components/Markdown/Collapse"
import Code from "components/Markdown/Code"
import Warning from "components/Markdown/Warning"

export const meta = {
  title: "Writing Data (JavaScript)",
  position: 60,
  technology: "node",
  technologyOrder: 1,
  articleGroup: "Writing Data",
}

## Overview

The Prisma client is based on the operations defined in the GraphQL schema of your Prisma API. For _writing_ data, it basically _mirrors_ the [GraphQL mutations](qwe2) of your Prisma service.

For this page, we'll assume your Prisma API is based on the following [datamodel](knul):

```graphql
type Link {
  id: ID! @unique
  createdAt: DateTime!
  description: String!
  url: String!
  postedBy: User
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  password: String!
  links: [Link!]!
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type Vote {
  id: ID! @unique
  link: Link!
  user: User!
}
```

For each model type in your datamodel, six methods for writing data are generated. These are named after the mutations in the GraphQL schema, e.g. for the `User` model:

- `createUser`: Creates a new `User` record in the database 
- `updateUser`: Updates an existing `User` record in the database
- `deleteUser`: Deletes an existing `User` record from the database
- `upsertUser`: Updates an existing or create a new `User` record in the database
- `updateManyUsers`: Updates many existing `User` records in the database at once. 
- `deleteManyUsers`: Deletes many existing `User` records from the database at once.

<Collapse title="View the full generated GraphQL schema & Prisma client">

- You can view what the generated GraphQL schema for the API [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.graphql)
- You can view what the generated JavaScript client [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.js).

</Collapse>

Each invokation of one of these methods is executed as a [transaction](vw4d#transactions--nested-mutations), meaning it is either guaranteed to succeed entirely or be rolled back if it partially fails.

## Creating objects

When creating new records in the database, the `create`-method takes one input object which wraps all the scalar fields of the record to be created. It also provides a way to create relational data for the model, this can be supplied using [nested object writes](#nested-object-writes).

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just created.

<Collapse title="View the types of the input object for `Link`, `User` and `Vote`">

- View the type of the input object of `createLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L567)
- View the type of the input object of `createUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L418)
- View the type of the input object of `createVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L214)

</Collapse>

### Examples

_Create a new user_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newUser = await prisma
  .createUser({
    name: "Alice",
    email: "alice@prisma.io",
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Create a new vote_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newVote = await prisma
  .createVote({
    user: {
      connect: {
        email: "alice@prisma.io"
      }
    },
    link: {
      connect: {
        id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
      }
    }
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createVote(data: {
    user: {
      connect: {
        email: "alice@prisma.io"
      }
    }
    link: {
      connect: {
        id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
      }
    }
  }) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Create a new user with two new links_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newUserWithLinks = await prisma
  .createUser({
    name: "Alice",
    email: "alice@prisma.io",
    password: "IlikeTurtles",
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }]
    }, 
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }]
    }
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>


## Updating objects

When updating existing records in the database, the `update`-method receives one input object with two fields:

- `data`: This is similar to the input object you provide to a `create`-method. It wraps scalar fields of the model to be updated and lets you provide relational data via [nested object writes](#nested-object-writes).
- `where`: This is used to select the record that should be updated. You can use any [unique](knul#unique-scalar-fields) field to identify the record. 

<Collapse title="View the types of `data` and `where` for `Link`, `User` and `Vote`">

- `data`
  - View the type of the `data` field of `updateLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L255)
  - View the type of the `data` field of `updateUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L468)
  - View the type of the `data` field of `updateVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L366)
- `where`
  - View the type of the `where` field of `updateLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L455)
  - View the type of the `where` field of `updateUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L357)
  - View the type of the `where` field of `updateVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L522)

</Collapse>

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just updated.

### Examples

_Set a new name on an existing user_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedUser = await prisma
  .updateUser({
    data: {
      name: "Alice"
    },
    where: {
      id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  updateUser(
    data: {
      name: "Alice"
    }
    where: {
      id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
    }
  ) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Update a link so that it was posted by a different user than before_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedLink = await prisma
  .updateLink({
    data: {
      postedBy: {
        connect: {
          id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
        }
      },
    },
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateLink(
    data: {
      postedBy: {
        connect: {
          id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
        }
      }
    }
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    }
  ) {
    id
    createdAt
    description
    url
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete the user that made a vote_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedVote = await prisma
  .updateVote({
    data: {
      user: {
        delete: true
      },
    },
    where: {
      id: "cjli5aual005n0a233ekv89o4"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateVote(
    data: {
      user: {
        delete: true
      }
    }
    where: {
      id: "cjli5aual005n0a233ekv89o4"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>

> For this operation to succeed, the `user` field on the `Vote` model must not be required. Otherwise the constraint that every `Vote` needs to be connected to a `User` would be violated.  

## Deleting objects

When deleting records from the database, the `delete`-method receives one input object that specifies which record is to be deleted. The type of this input object is identical to the `where` object in `update`-methods.

The properties of that object correspond to those fields of the model that are marked as [unique](knul#unique-scalar-fields). For the example datamodel above, this means that for `User`, `Vote` and `Link` it has an `id` property. For `User` it additionally accepts the `email` field.

<Collapse title="View the types of the input object for `Link`, `User` and `Vote`">

- View the type of the input object of `deleteLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L455)
- View the type of the input object of `deleteUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L357)
- View the type of the input object of `deleteVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L522)

</Collapse>

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just deleted.

### Examples

_Delete a link by its id_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const deletedLink = await prisma
  .deleteLink({
    id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteLink(where: {
    id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
  }) {
    id
    createdAt
    description
    url
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete a user by their email_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const deletedUser = await prisma
  .deleteUser({
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteUser(where: {
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
  }) {
    id
    createdAt
    description
    url
  }
}
```

</Code>

## Creating or updating objects (upserts)

Upsert operations allow you to _try_ to update an existing record. If that record actually does not exist yet, it will be created. The `upsert`-methods are a mix of `create`- and `update`-methods, meaning they receive an input argument that has three fields:

- `where`: Identical to the `where` field provided in `update`-methods
- `update`: Identical to the `data` field provided in `update`-methods
- `create`: Identical to the input object provide in `create`-methods

### Examples

_Update the URL of a link. If the link doesn't exist yet, create a new one_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedOrCreatedLink = await prisma
  .upsertLink({
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    },
    update: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
    },
    create: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com",
      description: "Fullstack GraphQL Tutorial"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  upsertLink(
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    }
    update: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
    }
    create: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      description: "Fullstack GraphQL Tutorial"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>


## Updating and deleting many records

The Prisma client API offers special methods to update or delete many records at once. The corresponding mutations in the generated GraphQL API of your Prisma service are called [batch mutations](vw4d#batch-mutations). Each `updateMany`- and `deleteMany`-method only returns the number of records that ultimately have been affected by the operation.

### Examples

_Update three links, specified by their IDs, and reset their URLs to the empty string_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedLinksCount = await prisma
  .updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      id_in: ["cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve", "cjli6tnkj005x0a2325ynfpb9", "cjli6tq3200620a23s4lp8npd"]
    },
    data: {
      url: ""
    },
  }).count
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      id_in: ["cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve", "cjli6tnkj005x0a2325ynfpb9", "cjli6tq3200620a23s4lp8npd"]
    }
    data: {
      url: ""
    }
  }) {
    count
  }
}
```

</Code>

<Warning>

If one or more of the provided IDs do not actually exist in the database, the operation will **not** return an error.

</Warning>

_Update all links where the description contains the string `graphql` and reset their URLs to the empty string_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedLinksCount = await prisma
  .updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      description_contains: "graphql"
    },
    data: {
      url: ""
    },
  }).count
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      description_contains: "graphql"
    }
    data: {
      url: ""
    }
  }) {
    count
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete all links that were created before 2018_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const deleteLinksCount = await prisma
  .deleteManyLinks({
    createdAt_lte: "2018"
  }).count
```

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteManyLinks(where: {
    createdAt_lte: "2018"
  }) {
    count
  }
}
```

</Code>

## Nested object writes

Nested object writes let you modify database records across multiple models in a single transaction. The corresponding concept from Prisma GraphQL API is called [nested mutations](vw4d#transactions--nested-mutations). Nested object writes are available for `create`- and `update`-methods.

<Warning>

The [MongoDB](jgfm) database connector currently does not support ACID transactions. Learn more in [this](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/3738) GitHub issue.

</Warning>

If a model `A` has a relation to a different model `B`, you can write to the model `B` through `createA` and `updateA` operations. In these cases, the `data` argument for the `createA` and `updateA` operations can contain one of the following keywords: 

- `create`: Creates a new model `B` and connects it via a relation field to the model `A`.
- `update`: Updates an existing model `B` that is connected to the model `A` via a relation field.
- `upsert`: Updates an existing model `B` that is connected to the model `A` via a relation field or creates a new model `B` and connects it via a relation field to the model `A`.
- `delete`: Deletes an existing model `B` that is connected to the model `A` via a relation field.
- `connect`: Connects an existing model `B` to an the model `A` via a relation field.
- `disconnect`: Disconnects an existing model `B` from the relation to model `A`.
- `set`:  Connects an existing model `B` to an the model `A` via a relation field. If the model `B` was connected to a different model `A` before, it is further disconnected from that (the connection is "rewired").

### Examples

_Create a new user with two new links and connect one existing link_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newUserWithLinks = await prisma
  .createUser({
    name: "Alice",
    email: "alice@prisma.io",
    password: "IlikeTurtles",
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }],
      connect: {
        id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
      }
    }, 
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }]
      connect: {
        id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
      }
    }
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete a link from a user_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedUser = await prisma
  .updateUser({
    where: {
      id: "cjli8znnd006n0a23ywc6wf8w"
    },
    data: {
      links: {
        delete: {
          id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
        }
      }
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateUser(
    where: {
      id: "cjli8znnd006n0a23ywc6wf8w"
    }
    data: {
      links: {
        delete: {
          id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
        }
      }
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>

Commit message:

adjust links from GraphQL API chapter

docs/1.27/prisma-client/basic-data-access/writing-data-JAVASCRIPT-rsc6.mdx, after:

import Collapse from "components/Markdown/Collapse"
import Code from "components/Markdown/Code"
import Warning from "components/Markdown/Warning"

export const meta = {
  title: "Writing Data (JavaScript)",
  position: 60,
  technology: "node",
  technologyOrder: 1,
  articleGroup: "Writing Data",
}

## Overview

The Prisma client is generated from your [datamodel](knul). Its API exposes CRUD and other operations for the models defined in the datamodel.

For this page, we'll assume your Prisma API is based on the following [datamodel](knul):

```graphql
type Link {
  id: ID! @unique
  createdAt: DateTime!
  description: String!
  url: String!
  postedBy: User
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  password: String!
  links: [Link!]!
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type Vote {
  id: ID! @unique
  link: Link!
  user: User!
}
```

For each model type in your datamodel, six methods for writing data are generated. These are named after the mutations in the GraphQL schema, e.g. for the `User` model:

- `createUser`: Creates a new `User` record in the database 
- `updateUser`: Updates an existing `User` record in the database
- `deleteUser`: Deletes an existing `User` record from the database
- `upsertUser`: Updates an existing or create a new `User` record in the database
- `updateManyUsers`: Updates many existing `User` records in the database at once. 
- `deleteManyUsers`: Deletes many existing `User` records from the database at once.

<Collapse title="View the full generated GraphQL schema & Prisma client">

- You can view what the generated GraphQL schema for the API [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.graphql)
- You can view what the generated JavaScript client [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.js).

</Collapse>

Each invokation of one of these methods is executed as a [transaction](vw4d#transactions--nested-mutations), meaning it is either guaranteed to succeed entirely or be rolled back if it partially fails.

## Creating objects

When creating new records in the database, the `create`-method takes one input object which wraps all the scalar fields of the record to be created. It also provides a way to create relational data for the model, this can be supplied using [nested object writes](#nested-object-writes).

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just created.

<Collapse title="View the types of the input object for `Link`, `User` and `Vote`">

- View the type of the input object of `createLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L567)
- View the type of the input object of `createUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L418)
- View the type of the input object of `createVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L214)

</Collapse>

### Examples

_Create a new user_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newUser = await prisma
  .createUser({
    name: "Alice",
    email: "alice@prisma.io",
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Create a new vote_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newVote = await prisma
  .createVote({
    user: {
      connect: {
        email: "alice@prisma.io"
      }
    },
    link: {
      connect: {
        id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
      }
    }
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createVote(data: {
    user: {
      connect: {
        email: "alice@prisma.io"
      }
    }
    link: {
      connect: {
        id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
      }
    }
  }) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Create a new user with two new links_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newUserWithLinks = await prisma
  .createUser({
    name: "Alice",
    email: "alice@prisma.io",
    password: "IlikeTurtles",
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }]
    }, 
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }]
    }
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>


## Updating objects

When updating existing records in the database, the `update`-method receives one input object with two fields:

- `data`: This is similar to the input object you provide to a `create`-method. It wraps scalar fields of the model to be updated and lets you provide relational data via [nested object writes](#nested-object-writes).
- `where`: This is used to select the record that should be updated. You can use any [unique](knul#unique-scalar-fields) field to identify the record. 

<Collapse title="View the types of `data` and `where` for `Link`, `User` and `Vote`">

- `data`
  - View the type of the `data` field of `updateLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L255)
  - View the type of the `data` field of `updateUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L468)
  - View the type of the `data` field of `updateVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L366)
- `where`
  - View the type of the `where` field of `updateLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L455)
  - View the type of the `where` field of `updateUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L357)
  - View the type of the `where` field of `updateVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L522)

</Collapse>

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just updated.

### Examples

_Set a new name on an existing user_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedUser = await prisma
  .updateUser({
    data: {
      name: "Alice"
    },
    where: {
      id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  updateUser(
    data: {
      name: "Alice"
    }
    where: {
      id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
    }
  ) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Update a link so that it was posted by a different user than before_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedLink = await prisma
  .updateLink({
    data: {
      postedBy: {
        connect: {
          id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
        }
      },
    },
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateLink(
    data: {
      postedBy: {
        connect: {
          id: "cjli512bd005g0a233s1ogbgy"
        }
      }
    }
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    }
  ) {
    id
    createdAt
    description
    url
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete the user that made a vote_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedVote = await prisma
  .updateVote({
    data: {
      user: {
        delete: true
      },
    },
    where: {
      id: "cjli5aual005n0a233ekv89o4"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateVote(
    data: {
      user: {
        delete: true
      }
    }
    where: {
      id: "cjli5aual005n0a233ekv89o4"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>

> For this operation to succeed, the `user` field on the `Vote` model must not be required. Otherwise the constraint that every `Vote` needs to be connected to a `User` would be violated.  

## Deleting objects

When deleting records from the database, the `delete`-method receives one input object that specifies which record is to be deleted. The type of this input object is identical to the `where` object in `update`-methods.

The properties of that object correspond to those fields of the model that are marked as [unique](knul#unique-scalar-fields). For the example datamodel above, this means that for `User`, `Vote` and `Link` it has an `id` property. For `User` it additionally accepts the `email` field.

<Collapse title="View the types of the input object for `Link`, `User` and `Vote`">

- View the type of the input object of `deleteLink` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L455)
- View the type of the input object of `deleteUser` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L357)
- View the type of the input object of `deleteVote` [here](https://github.com/nikolasburk/prisma-client-examples/blob/master/generated/prisma.ts#L522)

</Collapse>

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just deleted.

### Examples

_Delete a link by its id_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const deletedLink = await prisma
  .deleteLink({
    id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteLink(where: {
    id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
  }) {
    id
    createdAt
    description
    url
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete a user by their email_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const deletedUser = await prisma
  .deleteUser({
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteUser(where: {
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
  }) {
    id
    createdAt
    description
    url
  }
}
```

</Code>

## Creating or updating objects (upserts)

Upsert operations allow you to _try_ to update an existing record. If that record actually does not exist yet, it will be created. The `upsert`-methods are a mix of `create`- and `update`-methods, meaning they receive an input argument that has three fields:

- `where`: Identical to the `where` field provided in `update`-methods
- `update`: Identical to the `data` field provided in `update`-methods
- `create`: Identical to the input object provide in `create`-methods

### Examples

_Update the URL of a link. If the link doesn't exist yet, create a new one_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedOrCreatedLink = await prisma
  .upsertLink({
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    },
    update: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
    },
    create: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com",
      description: "Fullstack GraphQL Tutorial"
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  upsertLink(
    where: {
      id: "cjli47wr3005b0a23m9crhh0e"
    }
    update: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
    }
    create: {
      url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      description: "Fullstack GraphQL Tutorial"
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>


## Updating and deleting many records

The Prisma client API offers special methods to update or delete many records at once. The corresponding mutations in the generated GraphQL API of your Prisma service are called [batch mutations](vw4d#batch-mutations). Each `updateMany`- and `deleteMany`-method only returns the number of records that ultimately have been affected by the operation.

### Examples

_Update three links, specified by their IDs, and reset their URLs to the empty string_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedLinksCount = await prisma
  .updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      id_in: ["cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve", "cjli6tnkj005x0a2325ynfpb9", "cjli6tq3200620a23s4lp8npd"]
    },
    data: {
      url: ""
    },
  }).count
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      id_in: ["cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve", "cjli6tnkj005x0a2325ynfpb9", "cjli6tq3200620a23s4lp8npd"]
    }
    data: {
      url: ""
    }
  }) {
    count
  }
}
```

</Code>

<Warning>

If one or more of the provided IDs do not actually exist in the database, the operation will **not** return an error.

</Warning>

_Update all links where the description contains the string `graphql` and reset their URLs to the empty string_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedLinksCount = await prisma
  .updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      description_contains: "graphql"
    },
    data: {
      url: ""
    },
  }).count
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateManyLinks({
    where: {
      description_contains: "graphql"
    }
    data: {
      url: ""
    }
  }) {
    count
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete all links that were created before 2018_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const deleteLinksCount = await prisma
  .deleteManyLinks({
    createdAt_lte: "2018"
  }).count
```

```graphql
mutation {
  deleteManyLinks(where: {
    createdAt_lte: "2018"
  }) {
    count
  }
}
```

</Code>

## Nested object writes

Nested object writes let you modify database records across multiple models in a single transaction. The corresponding concept from Prisma GraphQL API is called [nested mutations](vw4d#transactions--nested-mutations). Nested object writes are available for `create`- and `update`-methods.

<Warning>

The [MongoDB](jgfm) database connector currently does not support ACID transactions. Learn more in [this](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/3738) GitHub issue.

</Warning>

If a model `A` has a relation to a different model `B`, you can write to the model `B` through `createA` and `updateA` operations. In these cases, the `data` argument for the `createA` and `updateA` operations can contain one of the following keywords: 

- `create`: Creates a new model `B` and connects it via a relation field to the model `A`.
- `update`: Updates an existing model `B` that is connected to the model `A` via a relation field.
- `upsert`: Updates an existing model `B` that is connected to the model `A` via a relation field or creates a new model `B` and connects it via a relation field to the model `A`.
- `delete`: Deletes an existing model `B` that is connected to the model `A` via a relation field.
- `connect`: Connects an existing model `B` to an the model `A` via a relation field.
- `disconnect`: Disconnects an existing model `B` from the relation to model `A`.
- `set`:  Connects an existing model `B` to an the model `A` via a relation field. If the model `B` was connected to a different model `A` before, it is further disconnected from that (the connection is "rewired").

### Examples

_Create a new user with two new links and connect one existing link_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const newUserWithLinks = await prisma
  .createUser({
    name: "Alice",
    email: "alice@prisma.io",
    password: "IlikeTurtles",
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }],
      connect: {
        id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
      }
    }, 
  })
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
    links: {
      create: [{
        description: "My first link",
        url: "https://www.prisma.io"
      }, {
        description: "My second link",
        url: "https://www.howtographql.com"
      }]
      connect: {
        id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
      }
    }
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

_Delete a link from a user_:

<Code languages={["JavaScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```js
const updatedUser = await prisma
  .updateUser({
    where: {
      id: "cjli8znnd006n0a23ywc6wf8w"
    },
    data: {
      links: {
        delete: {
          id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
        }
      }
    }
  })
```

```graphql
mutation {
  updateUser(
    where: {
      id: "cjli8znnd006n0a23ywc6wf8w"
    }
    data: {
      links: {
        delete: {
          id: "cjli6tknz005s0a23uf0lmlve"
        }
      }
    }
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

</Code>
