docs/1.27/prisma-client/basic-data-access/writing-data-GO-go08.mdx, before:

import Collapse from 'components/Markdown/Collapse'
import Code from "components/Markdown/Code"

export const meta = {
  title: 'Writing Data (Go)',
  position: 60,
  technology: "go",
  technologyOrder: 3,
  articleGroup: "Writing Data",
}

## Overview

The Prisma client is based on the operations defined in the GraphQL schema of your Prisma API. For _writing_ data, it basically _mirrors_ the [GraphQL mutations](qwe2) of your Prisma service.

For this page, we'll assume your Prisma API is based on the following [datamodel](knul):

```graphql
type Link {
  id: ID! @unique
  createdAt: DateTime!
  description: String!
  url: String!
  postedBy: User
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  password: String!
  links: [Link!]!
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type Vote {
  id: ID! @unique
  link: Link!
  user: User!
}
```

## Creating objects

When creating new records in the database, the `create`-method takes one input object which wraps all the scalar fields of the record to be created. It also provides a way to create relational data for the model, this can be supplied using [nested object writes](#nested-object-writes).

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just created.

### Examples

_Create a new user_:

<Code languages={["TypeScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```go
name := "Alice",
email := "alice@prisma.io",
password := "IlikeTurtles"
newUser, err := db.CreateUser(&prisma.UserCreateInput{
  Name: &name,
  Email: &email,
  Password: &password,
}).Exec()
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>

Commit message:

adjust links from GraphQL API chapter

docs/1.27/prisma-client/basic-data-access/writing-data-GO-go08.mdx, after:

import Collapse from 'components/Markdown/Collapse'
import Code from "components/Markdown/Code"

export const meta = {
  title: 'Writing Data (Go)',
  position: 60,
  technology: "go",
  technologyOrder: 3,
  articleGroup: "Writing Data",
}

## Overview

The Prisma client is generated from your [datamodel](knul). Its API exposes CRUD and other operations for the models defined in the datamodel.

For this page, we'll assume your Prisma API is based on the following [datamodel](knul):

```graphql
type Link {
  id: ID! @unique
  createdAt: DateTime!
  description: String!
  url: String!
  postedBy: User
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  password: String!
  links: [Link!]!
  votes: [Vote!]!
}

type Vote {
  id: ID! @unique
  link: Link!
  user: User!
}
```

## Creating objects

When creating new records in the database, the `create`-method takes one input object which wraps all the scalar fields of the record to be created. It also provides a way to create relational data for the model, this can be supplied using [nested object writes](#nested-object-writes).

Each method call returns an object that contains all the scalar fields of the model that was just created.

### Examples

_Create a new user_:

<Code languages={["TypeScript", "GraphQL"]}>

```go
name := "Alice",
email := "alice@prisma.io",
password := "IlikeTurtles"
newUser, err := db.CreateUser(&prisma.UserCreateInput{
  Name: &name,
  Email: &email,
  Password: &password,
}).Exec()
```

```graphql
# generated mutation
mutation {
  createUser(data: {
    name: "Alice"
    email: "alice@prisma.io"
    password: "IlikeTurtles"
  }) {
    id
    name
    email
    password
  }
}
```

</Code>
